My name is Maximiliano, Firtman.
So let me go quickly about what I'm doing.
So I've been a web developer for
a while now, from 1996, okay?
And then, of course,
we didn't have JavaScript at the time,
then I have the JavaScript.
But before that, I started doing
a backend with different languages.
I have even created scripts with Perl,
in case you have even
heard about that,
before getting into ASP, with VBScript.
And then PHP and ASP.NET,
Node.js lately and,
of course,
a lot of other server side languages.
I have started working with Go, around
four to five years ago to some projects.
So I have a mix of projects
in different languages.
So I'm a frequent author on books and
courses.
Here at Frontend Masters,
you will find lots of courses on mobile
app developments with Kotlin, Flutter,
and also on JavaScript and things
around web development, PWA and APIs.
And I'm from Argentina.
I actually came from Buenos Aires.
I live there in Buenos Aires,
so I'm a frequent traveler.
So I've been to 73 countries for
work, okay?
And I'm FIRT on Twitter.
So that's introduction, really quick.
So we are going to cover what's Go and
also why Go.
So why are we talking about Go,
why are you here today?
So better we just say what's Go,
why Go is important today?
Then the fundamental, so
we'll get into the fundamentals.
This is a basic course on Go.
So we will start from
scratch with the syntax.
So let me tell you good news and
bad news around Go's fundamentals.
So the good news is that
it's pretty simple.
It's actually pretty simple.
The language is pretty simple.
And the bad news is that
it's pretty simple.
So when you think about, okay,
how am I going to create?
When you're coming from other languages,
mainly, you're expecting more.
But that bad news, we will convert those
bad news in actually good news anyway.
But it's a very simple language.
We're going to get into
the standard libraries.
The standard libraries are actually
built-in libraries with the language.
So we don't need to
actually download more,
a lot of packages for
just what we use on a daily basis.
We will talk about Go routines and
concurrency in Go, so how that works.
That's pretty cool.
Then we will get deeper with some
packages such as format, HTTP.
So we are going to consume
data from the web.
We are going to see how to get information
from an API, how to parse the JSON,
how to manipulate the data.
And also how to create web servers and
web services, and templating.
So for those of you that were
using a template system before,
we're going to see how that works.
So how you can mix, for example, HTML with
Go in the middle, something like that,
okay, for serving files server side.
So prerequisites,
you will need to download Go.
I will give you the instructions,
but it's pretty simple.
You go to go.dev, that's the website,
and download Go for your OS.
We will get there anyway.
And we are going to use Visual Studio Code
with some tools that I will
show you in a minute.
There is a URL there on GitHub,
GitHub.com/firtman/go-fundamentals,
where you will find a copy
of what we're going to type.
Actually, you don't need to actually
get it or clone it for the workshop.
We are going to code
everything from scratch.